Welcome back.
In this section we are going to actually start replacing the redux in our application with the new context
API and it's quite simple to get started with.
But there is a few caveats and patterns of course that we need to understand in order to properly use
it.
Now let's start with an easy component to replace.
The first thing that we're going to do is we are going to look at our collection component now currently
our collection component.
Leverage is the select collection selector and redux of course in order to pull in the collection item.
So of course we are using our select collection selector which is pulling off the collections Map object
from our shop reducer you might not have seen this reducer in a while because it's been a little bit
since we've seen it in the state but in this application shop data is a local file.
If you remember when we first instantiated our shop data it's still the object that we know it as the
only differences that we were instantiating it as initial state inside of our shop producer.
So we're going to do pretty much the same thing except using context API instead of a reducer but conceptually
they serve a very similar purpose a reducer is just an object that stores data that we pull into our
components using selectors the context API you can kind of see like a reducer so I'm going to write
out a little bit of code and I want you to just follow along for now type along and I'll explain to
you what it is.
Once we write it but it's actually very simple.
So inside of our source folder you're gonna make a new folder and you're gonna call it contents and
in here is going to store our new context files as well as the folders that represent what they are.
So we're gonna make a new one and we're going to call it our collections.
So it's just collections and inside of collections we're making new collections dog context dodgy us.
So this context is only going to store our collections object.
Right.
That massive object that holds all of our collection items and in order to make this new context we
have to import in this method from react called create context from Rhea and all it is is it is a method
that can take anything it can take.
Strings integers objects functions.
What ever you want it to be erased anything and why it's so flexible is because that's literally what
it's storing as its initial state.
So that context is going to be the thing that we pull and store the values that we want inside of our
components.
So let me show you how we're gonna do that.
So first we're gonna make a new value and we're going to call it collections context right.
So make sure to capitalize the C because we're gonna use it like a component.
Now we're just going to say create context here and we're gonna pass it our shop data.
So if you remember inside of our redux folder for our shop our shop data is this file so I just want
you to copy it and then paste it into our context collections folder paste it in and then just import
that into this file.
So import in that shop data object from our shop data and pass this into your create context.
So what we're doing here is we're saying I want you to create this new context called collections context
that stores this shop data and this will be the initial value of our context we can of course set the
value later dynamically but we won't do that yet.
We first got to understand how we consume it because now we have an initial state.
In this context our shop data.
So we're just gonna export this out as the default value from this file and then inside of our collections
component.
We are now going to replace our existing redux implementation of getting the collection and how we're
gonna do that is we are going to first import in our new context that we just made.
So important in your collections context from our contexts slash collections slash collections context
and now in order to use it we actually need to get the value into our component.
So before the way that we did it was with our connect higher order component and the map state to promising
our collection into our component as a prop.
But we're not going to do that anymore.
So just remove this connect because we're not going to leverage redux anymore what we are going to do
is we are going to use this new collections context.
Now I'm going to show you the two ways that we can get the value that we've stored in this context into
our component.
The first way is that we use collections context as a component.
So this is actually the more complicated way to use it.
But the way that it works is that you use it as a component and you wrap the part of the application
where you want access to whatever is stored inside of this context.
So in our case it's our shop data.
Well I want access to it inside of this component.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to wrap this entire div here inside of the collection context as
a component but I'm going to call dot consumer and the DOT consumer just means that I want to leverage
the collections context consumer component.
There's only two components here there's a consumer there's a provider but we'll look at the provider
later what we want to do is consume the value.
So we'll use the consumer and we'll wrap this entire div inside of it.
Now in order to actually access what we have stored inside of this context we have access to it in the
form of a function.
And this function we can leverage the same way that we pretty much use to render anything inside of
these javascript curly braces in our ASX we get access to our stored object right as the parameter that
gets passed into this function.
So in our case it's collections.
And what we want to do is we want to actually pork the specific collection object that we want off of
this collection so if you remember what we were doing before as we were using the selector but now instead
we are going to manually pull it off instead of using the Select so what we'll say is instead of passing
in collection like this right we actually just want the match property.
We are going to say cost collection equals our collections object at that collection I.D..
So as you remember collection I.D. is the part you are all parameter value of our specific collection
page.
So if it's slash hat those hats.
If it's slash women then it's women.
Right.
Etc. etc..
So if you remember our collections as an object map we're getting that specific collection based on
this parameter.
And now we want to pluck off the title and the items and then out of this function we are going to return
all of this HD hymnal that represents what we need to render
and just like that.
That's all it is.
We just made sure to wrap the part of our component that needs access to what's stored inside of our
context.
We called concoctions context consumer when we got the ability to pass this function that has access
to the value that we stored in our context.
So now if we go back to our application we'll see that if we navigate to this page it still works right.
Everything is the exact same and that's pretty much all the context API is is.
It allows us to store and then pull these values into our components because the value is stored on
this context that we can pass an import into the components that need it.
Now I'll show you how the dynamic is set the value later.
But let me show you the other way the easier way for us to actually leverage this context value inside
of our components without having to introduce another component that wraps our component itself so we're
going to first undo all this code that we just wrote right.
Let's just go back to what we had before
what we're going to do here is we are going to import in a new hook called use context and what use
context does is it allows us to get the value inside of our context and store it as a concept inside
of our component.
So it's very easy because what we can do is we can say concept collection is equal to use context and
then what we pass in is the context we want to use so we got to make sure to also switch it back to
match right now if you remember what we are getting back is our collections object.
So here we can make sure to set our collection equal to our new collections at our match.
Don Paramus John collection I and now if we go back to our application it still works right.
It's much easier to refactor using than new used context.
It's that simple.
That's all it is when we call use context.
It will literally just pull whatever value the collection context is storing and then cast it to whatever
content we want to set it to.
So it's a really easy hook to use and this is pretty much all we need in order to use it but we've pretty
much replaced our redux that we were using before to get that collection object value.
In fact let's get rid of all of the redux bindings that we had here.
So let's just make sure to get rid of this because we don't need this anymore.
We don't need the map states props.
We don't need the Kinect and we don't need the selector let's save and let's make sure everything still
works.
So if we refresh there it is right.
We see that we are still pulling in the context and we're still leveraging our new collections map inside
of the context.
So that's it.
That's pretty much all it is in order to consume the context API.
What about dynamically setting the value because right now we're pretty much just leveraging the initial
state.
Right.
We're leveraging initial state based on what we passed into the context when we first instantiated it.
But what if we want to dynamically update the value right the way that we were doing before when we
dispatched actions that updated our reduced hours.
How do we actually dynamically update the context.
Well that's exactly what we're going to explore in the next lesson.